Create swap-and-add.md (#302)
Uniswap/docs: SDK_versioned_docs/version-3.0.0/guides/auto-router/swap-and-add.md

---
id: swap-and-add
title: Swap and Add Liquidity Atomically
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Swap and Add Liquidity Atomically

> You can use the Auto Router to fetch optimized trade routes that result in token balances proportional to the amount needed for adding optimal liquidity to a pool position. Use the method `routeToRatio` to get quotes, gas information, and calldata for atomically swapping tokens to a particular ratio and adding the new token balances to a pool position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When adding liquidity to a Uniswap v3 pool, you must provide two assets in a particular ratio. In many cases, your contract or the user's wallet hold a different ratio of those two assets. In order to deposit 100% of your assets, you must first **swap** your assets to the optimal ratio and then **add liquidity**. However, the swap will shift the balance of the pool and thus change the optimal ratio!

This guide will teach you how to execute this swap-and-add operation in a single atomic transaction. First, you will use the Auto Router to fetch calldata to swap to the optimal ratio and add liquidity. Then you will submit the transaction to the on-chain router contract `SwapRouter02.sol`. 
```

Reviewer: @ewilz can you please edit for accuracy? my goal here is to explain why a dev might be interested in this, what they can expect to learn, and a 10k foot summary

## Initializing the Alpha Router

> Follow the instructions to [import](https://docs.uniswap.org/sdk/guides/auto-router/quick-start#importing-the-package) then [initialize](https://docs.uniswap.org/sdk/guides/auto-router/quick-start#initializing-the-alpharouter) an instance of the Alpha Router

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, [import](https://docs.uniswap.org/sdk/guides/auto-router/quick-start#importing-the-package) and [initialize](https://docs.uniswap.org/sdk/guides/auto-router/quick-start#initializing-the-alpharouter) an instance of the Alpha Router. If you are using a different network, be sure to specify the right `chainId` parameter.

<code>
import { AlphaRouter } from "@uniswap/smart-order-router";
const router = new AlphaRouter({ chainId: 1, provider: web3Provider };
</code>

```

Reviewer: let's include the complete code example to make this as easy as possible for newcomers

Reviewer: github UI is not letting me wrap those two lines in code. Please do before merging!

Reviewer: also, should we add a command line in a separate code file (since its for the terminal) `> npm install @uniswap/smart-order-router`

> ## Calling `routeToRatio`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fetching calldata from `routeToRatio`
```

Reviewer: to explain why we are calling this function. help people understand the step

> The `routeToRatio` method returns all the swap and add calldata needed for submitting an atomic transaction to perform a swap and add liquidity to a position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now call the `routeToRatio` method on the Auto Router. This function will return all the calldata you need to submit an atomic swap-and-add transaction.
```

> Once you instantiate `AlphaRouter` call `routeToRatio` with the following parameters:

Reviewer: delete this line because the previous section initialized the auto router, and my edit on the previous line says to call the function

```typescript

> {

Reviewer: should we show a complete code example the user can copy paste?

```
router.routeToRatio(
  {
    ....
  }
)
```

Reviewer: ohhhhh I finally realized the full code example comes at the end after the parameter bullet points.  I think this will trip up a lot of people. I suggest we remove this code-style parameter object.  Let's go straight into the parameter bullet points and then the full code example.

Reviewer 2: ok fwiw, I've copied this format straight from the example using `route` so you might not think that docs page is laid out most effectively either

Reviewer: ahh I see. I think the use of a table for parameter descriptions in the router doc makes a huge difference! if we use a table here then I think it's okay to keep this parameter code snippet

the bullet points just made me as a reader feel like we finished the code example and moved on to more text

	token0Balance: CurrencyAmount,
	token1Balance: CurrencyAmount,
	position: Position,
	swapAndAddConfig: SwapAndAddConfig,
	swapAndAddOptions?: swapAndAddOptions,
	partialRoutingConfig?: Partial<AlphaRouterConfig> = {}
}
```

#### Parameters

`token0Balance` [required]

> - The initial starting balance of token0 of the pool for which to add liquidity

Reviewer: is this the starting balance of token 0 in the user's wallet/contract?  or in the pool?  I believe in the user's wallet/contract.

In that case please edit this and the token1 bullet below to say "The initial balance of token0 that you wish to swap-and-add, where token0 is the token0 in your target liquidity pool."

`token1Balance` [required]

- The initial starting balance of token1 of the pool for which to add liquidity

`position` [required]

> - A position object that contains the details of the position for which to add liquidity. The position liquidity can be set to 1, since liquidity is still unknown and will be set inside the call to `routeToRatio`

Reviewer: do we have a doc or technical reference to link to for Position type?

`swapAndAddConfig` [required]

> - Configurations for the routeToRatio algorithm. `ratioErrorTolerance` determines the margin of error the resulting ratio can have from the optimal ratio. `maxIterations` determines the maximum times the algorithm will iterate to find a ratio within error tolerance. If max iterations is exceeded, an error is returned.

Reviewer: do we have a doc or technical reference to link to for this type?

Reviewer 2: I can link the technical reference in the github code?

Reviewer: perfect!

`swapAndAddOptions` [optional]

> - If included, routeToRatio will return the calldata for executing the atomic swap-and-add. These options contain `swapConfig` and `addLiquidityOptions`. `swapConfig` configures to set a recipient of leftover dust from swap, slippageTolerance, deadline, and inputTokenPermit. `addLiquidityOptions` contains slippageTolerance and deadline for the swap. `addLiquidityOptions` must contain a `tokenId` to add to an existing position, or `recipient` to mint a new one. It also includes a slippage tolerance and deadline for adding liquidity.

Reviewer: "if this parameter is provided, then routeToRatio will..."

> - If included, routeToRatio will return the calldata for executing the atomic swap-and-add. These options contain `swapConfig` and `addLiquidityOptions`. `swapConfig` configures to set a recipient of leftover dust from swap, slippageTolerance, deadline, and inputTokenPermit. `addLiquidityOptions` contains slippageTolerance and deadline for the swap. `addLiquidityOptions` must contain a `tokenId` to add to an existing position, or `recipient` to mint a new one. It also includes a slippage tolerance and deadline for adding liquidity.

Reviewer: typo? in the code example, swapConfig and addLiquidityOptions sit under `swapAndAddConfig`  not `swapAndAddOptions`

`routingConfig` [optional]

> - Optional config for tuning the performance of the routing algorithm.

Reviewer: This sounds like an advanced setting that most people should not play with, so it's okay to provide minimal information and skip the code example. However we should always provide a pointer where you can learn more! 

Can we add a link to either (a) technical reference if it exists or (b) the line/file of source code where routingConfig is used?

> 

Reviewer: add a line here that says "Here is a complete example that initializes these parameters and then calls `routeToRatio`

```typescript
const USDC = new Token(
  ChainId.MAINNET,
  '0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48',
  6,
  'USDC',

>   'USD//C'

Reviewer: what are the slashes here?

);

const WETH = new Token(
  1,
  '0xC02aaA39b223FE8D0A0e5C4F27eAD9083C756Cc2',
  18,
  'WETH',
  'Wrapped Ether'
);

const token0Balance = CurrencyAmount.fromRawAmount(USDC, '5000000000')
const token1Balance = CurrencyAmount.fromRawAmount(WETH, '0')
const pool = new Pool(
  USDC,
  WETH,
  3000,
  '1283723400872544054280619964098219',
  '8390320113764730804' ,
  '193868'
);

> const route = await router.route({

Reviewer: function name is `routeToRatio` right?

```suggestion
const route = await router.routeToRatio({
```

	token0Balance,
	token1Balance,
	position: new Position({
		pool,
		tickLower: -60,
		tickUpper: 60,

> 		liquidity: 1, // arbitrary and unused

Reviewer: is this really arbitrary? I thought we were recommending it be set to 1.  What would happen if a different value was set?

	}),
	swapAndAddConfig: {
		swapConfig: {
			recipient: myAddress,
			slippage: new Percent(5, 100),
			deadline: 100
		},
		addLiquidityOptions: {
			tokenId: 10,
			slippage: new Percent(5, 100),
			deadline: 100
		}
	}
);
```

## Submitting a Transaction

> The object returned from calling `routeToRatio` is a `SwapToRatioResponse`. If a route was found successfully, `SwapToRatioResponse` will have to fields: `status` and `result`. `status` will be set to success and `result` contains the `SwapToRatioRoute` object.

Reviewer: copy edits:
```suggestion
The `routeToRatio` function returns a `SwapToRatioResponse` object. If a route was found successfully, this object will have two fields:

- `status` will be set to `success`
- `result` will contain the `SwapToRatioRoute` object

```

Reviewer: btw as a developer I'm a bit confused here.  We assign the result of the function to `route` and we're saying it has two member variables: status and result

But then down the page in the example code, we access totally different member variables

- route.methodParameters.calldata
- route.methodParameters.value
- route.gasPriceWei

what am I missing?

```typescript

> export type SwapRoute = {

Reviewer: what is this? The doc should explain what it is, why we use it, and where it is used.  I don't see it used in the following code example?

Maybe it's the parent class of `SwapToRatioRoute`? If so let's make that clear with something like "The SwapToRatioRoute object is of type `SwapRoute` with the following parameters.

	quote: CurrencyAmount;
	quoteGasAdjusted: CurrencyAmount;
	optimalRatio: Fraction;
	postSwapTargetPool: Pool;
	estimatedGasUsed: BigNumber;
	estimatedGasUsedQuoteToken: CurrencyAmount;
	estimatedGasUsedUSD: CurrencyAmount;
	gasPriceWei: BigNumber;
	trade: Trade<Currency, Currency, TradeType>;
	route: RouteWithValidQuote[];
	blockNumber: BigNumber;
	methodParameters?: MethodParameters;
};
```

> Use the quoted gas price and generated call data as inputs for the transaction, as done below:

Reviewer: was gas price part of the `SwapToRatioRoute` object?

---
id: swap-and-add
title: Swap and Add Liquidity Atomically
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Swap and Add Liquidity Atomically

When adding liquidity to a Uniswap v3 pool, you must provide two assets in a particular ratio. In many cases, your contract or the user's wallet hold a different ratio of those two assets. In order to deposit 100% of your assets, you must first **swap** your assets to the optimal ratio and then **add liquidity**. However, the swap may shift the balance of the pool and thus change the optimal ratio!

This guide will teach you how to execute this swap-and-add operation in a single atomic transaction. First, you will use the Auto Router to fetch calldata to swap to the optimal ratio and add liquidity. Then you will submit the transaction to the on-chain router contract `SwapRouter02.sol`. 

## Initializing the Alpha Router

First, [import](https://docs.uniswap.org/sdk/guides/auto-router/quick-start#importing-the-package) and [initialize](https://docs.uniswap.org/sdk/guides/auto-router/quick-start#initializing-the-alpharouter) an instance of the Alpha Router. If you are using a different network, be sure to specify the right `chainId` parameter.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
npm install @uniswap/smart-order-router
```
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript
```

import { AlphaRouter } from "@uniswap/smart-order-router";
const router = new AlphaRouter({ chainId: 1, provider: web3Provider });
```

## Fetching calldata from `routeToRatio`

Now call the `routeToRatio` method on the Auto Router. This function will return all the calldata you need to submit an atomic swap-and-add transaction.

#### Parameters

> 

Reviewer: I whipped up a markdown table for the parameters! will it work?

```suggestion
| Name                | Requirement | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|---------------------|-------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `token0Balance`     | required    | The initial balance of `token0` that you wish to swap-and-add, where `token0` is the `token0` in your target liquidity pool.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `token1Balance`     | required    | The initial balance of `token1` that you wish to swap-and-add, where `token1` is the `token1` in your target liquidity pool.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `position`          | required    | A [Position](https://docs.uniswap.org/sdk/guides/liquidity/minting#creating-a-position-instance) object that contains the details of the position for which to add liquidity. The position liquidity can be set to `1`, since liquidity is still unknown and will be set inside the call to `routeToRatio`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `swapAndAddConfig`  | required    | A [swapAndAddConfig](https://github.com/Uniswap/smart-order-router/blob/b26ffdc978ab1076c817392ab20ed2df325daf7a/src/routers/router.ts#L123) sets configurations for the `routeToRatio` algorithm. `ratioErrorTolerance` determines the margin of error the resulting ratio can have from the optimal ratio. `maxIterations` determines the maximum times the algorithm will iterate to find a ratio within error tolerance. If `maxIterations` is exceeded, an error is returned.                                                                                                                                                             |
| `swapAndAddOptions` | optional    | If [swapAndAddOptions](https://github.com/Uniswap/smart-order-router/blob/b26ffdc978ab1076c817392ab20ed2df325daf7a/src/routers/router.ts#L130) is included, `routeToRatio` will return the calldata for executing the atomic swap-and-add. These options contain `swapConfig` and `addLiquidityOptions`. `swapConfig` configures to set a recipient of leftover dust from swap, slippageTolerance, deadline, inputTokenPermit and outputTokenPermit. `addLiquidityOptions` must contain a `tokenId` to add to an existing position, or `recipient` to mint a new one. It also includes a slippage tolerance and deadline for adding liquidity. |
| `routingConfig`     | optional    | Optional advanced config for tuning the performance of the routing algorithm. View the [AlphaRouterConfig](https://github.com/Uniswap/smart-order-router/blob/b26ffdc978ab1076c817392ab20ed2df325daf7a/src/routers/alpha-router/alpha-router.ts#L222) object for these optional configuration parameters.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
```
